All right.
So this is the summary for the handling errors during each phases one and two.
I cannot believe we got here.
It has been a huge ride and we're finally at the end of this section.
Congratulations for getting this far.
So let's quickly recap on what we've learned in this massive section in this section we learned how
Excel can mess up your data.
Be careful if Excel it has a life of its own.
And even if you just open and close a file it can change the format of the file and your data can be
messed up as we saw how to correctly open files in Excel via the text import wizard that is a very great
way to open files so that Excel doesn't us the formats of your columns.
You can actually specify them yourself and it saves you from lots of issues the ones we saw were when
dates were picked up incorrectly and also when credit card numbers were lost because of the way Excel
looked at them.
How to handle daughter truncation in SOSIAS.
So that was when you allocated only a thousand characters for a column which had a comment which in
one of the rows which was over 1000 characters.
A very simple solution.
Just allocate more space for that specific column.
Everything about text qualifiers.
I'm expecting that you are totally sick of text qualifiers by now.
If that's not the case then re watch this section again I want you to be sick of text qualifiers and
that means that you know them really really well.
You need to know them because you will be dealing as a data scientist you'll be dealing a lot with ECAC
files and other files that use text qualifiers.
So you need to know them really well and exactly what they're there for and how they operate and what
they qualify on and qualify.
So we talked a lot about text qualifies in this section and you will have to qualify as in your homework
.
So make sure you're quite comfortable very comfortable with text qualifiers and that topic never ever
bothers you again in your career ever.
How to use notepad plus plus with two files side by side.
I hope that now you can appreciate the power of Notepad plus plus and was better than just notepad and
exactly what you can do with notepad plus plus we saw how we can put two files side by side and actually
synchronize them in vertical and horizontal scrolling.
It was very very easy for us to analyze huge volumes of data as remember we had 50000 rows and that
allowed us to quickly pick up any errors that we were looking for what to do when your source file is
corrupt.
So we looked at some of the basic very basic ways.
A source file can be corrupt.
And trust me the bigger your file gets the more issues you can have if you are potentially going to
have Woolford because larger files you know they're stored on sometimes are stored on the flash drive
sometimes are stored on hard drives and there are clusters there and you know them magnets can be can
fail at some point and there can be lots of different issues while a wire file can be corrupt.
Will looked at some of the basic examples when simple text qualifiers were missing and how that affects
your rows and the rest of your data so that is there was a good way to get introduced to corruption
of data.
It's not guaranteed that in your career what you'll be experiencing is that specific type of corruption
but at least you will know that things can go wrong.
And I gave you some ideas of how to address these issues and situations when you can potentially fix
things yourself.
But once again I advise.
If you find corruption your main goal is to isolate it isolate it make sure only 1 to 10 a thousand
rows are affected by that corruption and but everything before and everything after is OK and then you
can separate your files.
That was the road we were focusing on in SSA es.
In all manual assessments using Excel as a text import wizard to save guard from further corruption
.
We were focusing on isolation of the corruption corrupted rows putting them into a separate file and
sending them off to the person that is responsible the custodian of the daughter who can analyze them
and give you the correct rows.
Your goal is to make sure that the corruption doesn't spread across a whole file and that you are confident
that the fraud that you are analyzing that the rules that you are letting through into a database that
they are not corrupt or they are not including that corruption that you noticed.
And if there is some issues with the rows with the rows of data that do into your data set as we discussed
maybe in this blueprint up to now there's something that you won't be able to pick up.
We've picked up we're picking up the majority of the you know huge volumes of corrupted data.
Maybe there's one or two or three or you know depending on the size of the database maybe is another
thousand issues that you haven't picked up.
But we will look at that in the further sections of the course.
We'll look at how to surgically pick out few other roles that might have anomalies in this section you
also learn a handy trick to find anomalies in as well.
So that was the trick when we looked at the last column whether it's shifted left or right.
It picks up quite a lot.
So if you do have say in one row you have two anomalies so you have a corruption in one column and then
in corruption five columns down the track and what the cloud of corruption on the left or the first
corruption makes everything shift to the left the second corruption makes everything shift to the right
.
Then they kind of cancel each other out and you won't pick that up because your last columns will be
in place.
But that happens rarely.
More likely you will have only one corruption and something will shift and this handy trick will help
you pick stuff up in a scale.
But once again we don't really need to use a chicken scale because we then integrated that trick into
our Sosias using conditional splits and automating the whole process so stick to that.
That is the way to go how to use conditional splits to create powerful projects and SS nominee Commons
here.
Conditional splits are powerful and they make your Sosias projects look awesome and work awesome and
they automate a lot of stuff for you.
So use conditional splits in your work.
They're great how to automate error handling in SSI.
So once again that is using conditional splits and different logical operators and looking at different
columns.
And don't forget here we not only looking at corrupt rows we're also looking at rows with missing data
.
So if you already know what data you will definitely need for analysis or if there is a critical column
for instance name surname or customer ID or email that your office or of your customers or if it's transactions
and you know it could be credit card numbers and so on if that information is missing for some rows
then SSA as is your friend to help you you and use conditional splits to get those rolls out before
you upload the data so you can efficiently send them back and get the full version from the person or
from the department that sent you down in the first place.
The important due diligence check for quality assurance what was the due diligence check that one little
one.
That's right.
It was counting the rows of your table when you upload data.
If you forget to truncate the table before you rerun your Sosias package it will not truncated automatically
for you.
It'll just add it will append the new rows to the ones that already exist in your table.
And in that way what will happen.
Well you will get duplicate results and it can be very very painful when you report something that is
wrong.
When you complete a report an inflated sales or an inflated losses or your reports are completely out
of whack because you've counted everything twice.
So get into the habit of doing that due diligence check and just running a simple count query in Escal
after the import has finished.
And also don't forget after you've finished working with ISIS to disable your package because if you
add more packages into that project in Sosias for other data sets that relate to your data science project
.
Then every time you run your SSL project all the packages that are not disabled will run.
And once again you can get duplicate rows so very important to disable your package.
Once you've finished playing that specific table into your database and finally we talked about types
of errors in essays so we looked at the errors that we had the errors that we can potentially have.
And the other errors in Sosias that could happen but won't happen in this blueprint because it's so
simple.
So that was a good overview and a good backing to this blueprint why you should use it and why it's
been designed in this way to help you avoid errors in as as this blueprint.
Speaking of we'll help you with at least 90 percent of situations so it's not a guarantee that it works
in all situations.
And I'm also maybe situations like when your daughter is not in a text file.
Is it a different type of file or is in a database maybe you can use bits and pieces out of this blueprint
so for instance you could use the conditional splits and you know look for some ideas on how to look
for anomalies and so on so maybe you can use all of the blueprint right away in your specific project
or maybe you can use this blueprint at all sometimes.
But what this is saying is that in most cases you should be able to use this blueprint you should put
yourself in a position that you can use as a blueprint and more as much of it as you can because it
will help you.
It will guide you.
It will help you avoid errors.
It will give you exact steps that you need to perform to get your data into a prepared format to further
analyze it.
This blueprint is simple and methodic hopefully you've noticed that by now that there's nothing complicated
about it after you've done it you know a couple couple times maybe a dozen times you will you'll be
able to do it move.
Metaphorically speaking of your eyes closed it is methodic meaning you don't have to invent anything
you just have to follow the steps and you should be fine.
It includes numerous Q8 checks which is always a great thing to have because once again we're spending
a lot of time on uploading all data uploading data is one of the most important steps in a data science
project or preparing data I should say. You've got to spend at least 70 percent of your time.
That's the reality of things and that's what you see from the scores.
At least 70 percent of the time you're going to be spending preparing data.
So you want to make sure that what you've done is correct that there are no errors along the way because
if there is one major error then the rest of your work that you do with visualization programming modeling
and so on.
It doesn't matter at all.
OK.
This blueprint leaves an auditable trace meaning that you can always come back and see exactly what
happened where some rows went where the other rows went how it was structured what the logic was behind
isolating certain anomalies and so on.
It is reliable because there are Q8 checks because it's methodic It's simple it has an orderable trace
it is a reliable blueprint and it is repeatable meaning that if you ever need to re-upload the data
or as you saw redevelop the package you saw that in this section that we were constantly redeveloping
our SSX package.
It's very simple to come back there and add something to add or remove something just don't forget to
truncate the table that you are uploading into.
So you don't have duplicate rows and don't forget to do the check afterwards every single time.
And finally why are we uploading the data as text so if your experience Professor Assayas already or
you know you have some I've done some tutorials on that.
You would probably know that you can in essence yes you can convert your data there and upload it as
the correct format so say you take customer numbers and you convert them into numbers.
You wouldn't really comment that it takes a dollars and you convert them dollar amounts you convert
them into actual float variables.
Right.
Or you take dates and you convert them instead of imploding or less text you convert them into dates
in essence.
And then you upload them as dates already into as well so it makes it more prettier the table as you
get skills a bit prettier and more ready.
Well why are we applauding daughter as text.
Going to answer that question for you.
We're doing that to avoid errors.
It is a complex procedure to find the right types for your daughter.
And plus if you have anomalies in your daughter in those columns that you converting If in your date
field there's a dollar amount or something you're going to get heaps and heaps of errors along the way
.
Yes you can exclude them yes you can find ways in SSA as to direct those arrows to other places that
you really want to do all of that in essays and built this huge package we are not doing a creating
a business analysis process here we're not creating.
No we're not here to create SOSIAS projects we're using as assets to help us get the data into the database
.
And along the way we're executing some anomalies but we want to do most of the work in school.
So exactly that we want to move all the heavy lifting to school and see e-tail face 3.
If you thought that this was the end of the tail process.
No it's not.
That was it's a mistake to think that this is the end of retail.
We still have Phase 3 when we are going to work with the data in as well.
So for now we've learned how to upload a raw file where everything is in text inter-school and as you
will see working with that and converting that file into something pretty something that you can actually
analyze something and work with is very simple.
It's also going to be a very methodical very simple blueprint is going to be fast hopefully faster than
this one and very repeatable very honorable and we want to move all of that into as well because we're
going to have a great blueprint for that and having the raw files in Eskdale reduces the chance that
you will have to re-upload or in the future.
So in addition to all of those other benefits of askew all that you know it's phos that you are able
to follow a specific blueprint that we're going to have for us.
Q Well it's repeatable that it's orderable that it's very simple and methodic and you not going to have
as many errors or at least you will know how to deal with those errors.
The fact that you're happy that you're going to have the rule files in as you well and let's face it
here we're not actually modifying the raw files that much we're all we're doing is extracting some rows
.
The rows that are anomalies and maybe corruption's we're extracting them but the remaining rows that
were actually uploaded were applauding them in pretty much their row format.
We're not modifying the contents of the table the cells of these rows.
And what that means is that you have that rule file as is in skill and if you ever need to revert back
to it it's there.
Whereas on the other hand if you do something with the profile in SSA as for instance you modify the
types you guess or do some type conversions in SSA es or you join tables or whatever you do in SSA us
and then you upload the file to tables to a.
And then at some point you realize while you're working in a SQL server that oh actually I know I don't
like what I did in essence I I need to change that.
Then you will have to go back to say yes you'll have to change it and then you'll have to re upload
the files again.
So we want to avoid that we want to upload a version the files as close as possible to the original
a scale so that we minimize the chance that we will ever have to re upload or in the future.
So that's my answer to that question why we're uploading daughter as text.
I really really hope you enjoy this section or even if you didn't enjoy it.
I know it was tedious and it was a lot of hard core work the data wasn't clean.
That's the reality of things.
You know like I don't I don't really enjoy courses where everything is nice and fluffy and smooth and
you just follow certain instructions and you get get the result that you should.
I believe that this is like war you should be faced with the reality of the real world what's going
to happen to you.
And the more you practice the more you see these things these anomalies these you know horrible things
that can happen to your daughter along the way and horrible types of data.
The more prepared you are for the real world.
And that's what counts.
Because when you get out there and you're fresh and green and you don't know anything about the real
world of data science.
Well it's going to take ages to make all these mistakes and good good good good at working with the
data that's out there whereas hopefully now from this course you've already had a taste for it and it's
like a fast track into hard core data so that you will be able to you know face these challenges when
they come.
And speaking of challenges check out the next lecture.
It is your homework from this section.
Of course it's not compulsory you don't have to do it but I highly recommend you check it out.
I've prepared some really cool challenges for you and not going to be as simple as you think.
So check that out.
And I look forward to seeing you in the next section of the course